# DS3010-Final-Project---Finding-the-Power
In this project we analyze emissions data provided from a kaggle dataset and produce regressions and a classification engine. We produce a cool tool for visualizing the regressions with Tableau and Bokeh in a python notebook.

Jack Adiletta, Joe Molder, Megan Lyle, Zack Gluck
February 22nd, 2024
Project Checkpoint
Summary and Descriptive Statistics: The raw dataset from Kaggle contains 129 columns of data collected from a number of Energy.com datasets. Many of the columns pertain to a specific resource consumed or source of electricity for a given country, region, or trade bloc. Each row represents one year for the country, region, or trade bloc; the data is sparse as many countries do not contain any data for some columns. We removed empty values in order to make the dataset more compact and easier to work with.
	Additional statistics we calculated to describe the data are GDP per capita and average emissions. To produce GDP per capita we divided the GDP for a given country in a given year by the population for the country at that year. If the country had no population or GDP data for that year, we left the value as ‘None’. We produced an additional binary column stating if the country is developed. According to the world bank, a developed country is one with a GDP per capita over $13,846. Countries with over $13,846 GDP per capita were marked as developed. This number can be adjusted for inflation over time to ensure a more precise classification. 
We also visualized greenhouse gas emissions over time by country. We made a graph with all countries displaying their greenhouse gas emissions since 2000 to determine the magnitude and trend of carbon emissions by countries this century. This allows us to get a better general idea of which countries we want to focus on.

Figure 1: Greenhouse Gas Emissions over time for all Entities
	This graph shows that the major contributors to carbon emissions are by a handful of entities. Our focus in the future will be on the upper echelon of countries which have the most impact on emissions. 

Data Cleaning: When starting work with the data, we found additional entities in the dataset that grouped countries by continent and other alliances. We wanted to remove all non-country entities so we were left with just countries to analyze. From there, we calculated each country's average yearly emissions and sorted them by that value. We then chose the top 20 countries since they were the most significant producers of emissions representing the rest of the world as a whole. For each of the top 20 countries, we used a linear regression to predict their emissions up to the year 2040. Figure 2 shows our graph of the predicted and given data to analyze how the predictions match historical data. In this graph, we used the “Regression” boolean to distinguish between the given and predicted values which gave us two colors for the data (blue for values from the dataset, and orange for the predicted ones). 

Figure 2: Top 20 Country Given Values and Regression Predictions
Insights: Based on some initial regression experimentation, we found that a quartic regression model may best represent country emissions over time. We will confirm this assessment with K fold analysis on historical data. Additionally, we found that it would be very difficult to produce a ‘goodness metric’ as a label for a classification model that does not include ‘leakage’ from the features. We believe that any emissions metric is ultimately based on the kind of sources that are used which we planned on using as features. Instead of an emissions ‘goodness metric,’ we plan on building a classifier that uses emissions data as features to classify a country as developed or developing. Features will not include population, GDP, or the country name - the factors which determine whether a country is developing or developed.

Initial Screenshots and Next steps: We have two major goals to finish our project: first we intend to build a classification model to determine based on emissions data, whether a country is developing or not. We will use feature reduction techniques such as principal component analysis, correlation study, and Gini information gain to choose the most relevant features. 
Figure 3: Initial output from Summed Regression 
Secondly, we plan to build an interactive system sketched in Figure 4. One pane of the system will allow a user to run custom regressions based on the top 20 countries in the dataset. As shown in figure 4, the user can select whether the global  predicted emissions are based on a linear, quadratic, cubic, quartic, DNN or the best fit model for each country. The second pane of the interactive system graphs the prediction made with linear regression and the prediction made using a DNN for a selected country. We intend to make a Tableau dashboard for this system, but the prototype will be built with Bokeh. We currently envision the country to be chosen by clicking a map, but this may change to a list depending on our aesthetic opinions. 

Figure 4: Interactive System Sketches
